abcselect
---------

abcselect is a small tool for extracting parts, movements 
etc. from files in the abc format of music notation.

It was first named "abc2abc" but that was the name of
a tool by James Allwrigth as well; thus it is now
named "abcselect" in analogy to "psselect".

abcselect is copyrighted by Christoph Dalitz and can be 
distributed freely under the GNU GPL.


Requirements
------------

abcselect is a Perl script and requires a Perl version >= 5.0.
If you are not sure about the version installed on your
system, check it out with "perl -v".

On MacOS X, Linux and other Unix systems, Perl is usually shipped 
with the operating system. On Win32 systems you need to install 
the Perl interpreter first, e.g. from Active State:

    http://www.activestate.com/ActivePerl/

If you do not know what Perl is and what it is good for, you should
rather use the precompiled binary abcselect.exe that has been created
using the PAR module with "pp -o abcselect.exe abcselect".


Installation
------------

MacOS X, Linux, Unix:

1. Adjust the first line in abcselect to the full path
   of your perl executable.
   (If you get an error "abcselect: file or directory not found"
   on the invocation of abcselect, this line is probably not
   correct.)

2. Copy abcselect into a directory in your path (eg. /usr/local/bin)
   and make it executable (chmod a+x abcselect).

3. Copy the man page abcselect.1 into a man page directory
   (eg. /usr/local/man/man1).

Win32:

Put the binary abcselect.exe somewhere in your program search path.
The program search path is printed with the command "path" and can
be changed in the system setting "Environment Variables" (variable
PATH).


Usage:
------

abcselect is a command line program that can only be run from
the command line (*not* by double clicking on the program).
"abcselect -?" gives a usage message. If invoked without any
parameter, abcselect reads from stdin and writes to stdout.

Example: The following command selects the first, second and 
third voice from the second tune of sample.abc and writes them
to selection.abc:

     abcselect -V 1-3 -X 2 sample.abc > selection.abc

Please consult the man page for details. On Unix, simply type
"man abcselect", on Windows open the html version of the man
page, "abcselect.html".

May 2006

Christoph Dalitz
<christoph dot dalitz at hs-niederrhein dot de>
